[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Throughout the ages, there
have been tales of masters with
superhuman powers.
They have inspired
books, movies, and me.
All of us dreamed of
having superhuman powers,
then most of us gave
up on the dream,
but I wanted to know
if they are real,
and I've spent all
my life searching
for genuine superhumans
in every culture on Earth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It's said that the journey
of 1,000 miles starts with
the first step, but if that
first step is in the wrong
direction, we might find
ourselves 1,000 miles off from
where we want to be.
Modern life hasn't given
us a map, a map to joy,
compassion, or inner peace.
In fact, we're living in a
cave of our own suffering
and shadows.
I want to introduce
you to a man who's
discovered a new way of living.
He's met extraordinary people
with ancient wisdom, wisdom
that shows us a
new way of living.
He's discovered a map that
leads to the path of liberation.
This journey that we're
about to embark on starts
in the only place that it can.
This journey starts with
you, right here, right now.
Let me introduce you
to David Verdesi.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When I first met you, your
martial arts was amazing.
We were 15 or 16 together
in upstate New York,
flying through the air.
When did you first start
studying martial arts?
>> I was six years old.
>> Six.
>> Yeah, the first
year of school,
and there was this judo
dojo within the premises
of the school, and I
was just magnetized.
I kind of begged my grandmother
and said send me to judo,
and she was all happy
because she raised me,
and she was a
military in the past.
She was a sniper
during the war fighting
the Nazis, the partisan, and
not just the normal sniper.
She was a sniper on skis.
And so basically, I
would finish school
and instead of going
to do homework,
I would spend literally
five hours a day training,
so I knew how to throw
a knife and big knives,
or shoot a crossbow before I
was playing with transformers.
>> Those are good
for six-year-olds.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> Is good, and yeah, it's
something that I started very
early on.
It was probably a
very important way
to channel stress or trauma.
So I was raised in a
bit of a certain way,
and my grandmother used
to quote me Einstein,
a great scientist or
this great philosopher,
described there's a
belief in this universe,
in an energy that
we are part of,
and I was always in between
strong contrast and paradoxes.
She is still alive,
and atheist--
convinced atheist, but I was
raised in a priest school.
So an atheist grandmother,
a priest's school,
and martial arts.
It was this Asian culture, and
it was a strong mix of elements
always.
>> This might be just the
elements to make a superhuman.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Are you ready to
go on this journey?
You've just met
David Verdesi who's
traveled around the world
in search of great masters.
Now you can join him
for the first time
in the search of superhumans
and see what he's discovered.
My name is Lee Holden,
and for over 25 years,
I've been studying martial
arts, qigong, energy healing,
acupuncture, massage therapy.
I've traveled around the
world, but I've still
not yet discovered the kinds of
people that David Verdesi has.
Now you and I, we can go
on this epic adventure
together, and see
what he's discovered.
>> My point is after seeing
all these different cultures
and practices, instead of
getting lost in the 1,000
different techniques that
humanity has devised to alter
the brain out of their
consciousness, or expand it,
or communicating with the gods,
developing special abilities,
for me the thing has always been
what are the common results?
What are the common
results, and what
are the common elements of each
of these practices, methodics?
And so, the people
that we see are
people that, to certain
extent, were picked up,
one, because they were available
because many people just
refused to be on camera,
and second because I
try to build a mandala.
I try to build with these
people, each one of them.
It's not really so
important what they do,
and that's what people I really
hope that they will get when
people watch the movie,
that it's not so important
what they do.
It's what it highlights.
It's the principle.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I have an intention,
and I visualize it,
but what you brought up made
me think that there's you,
and there's something
that you want,
and there's a tension between.
>> Of course.
>> And as soon as you relax,
maybe it draws you from here
to there in a quicker
way if it's clean energy,
so the intention of
here's what I want to do.
Here's what I want
to be in the world.
Here's where I am now, and
here's where I want to create,
there's a pool between.
>> There's a pull.
Must be a pull.
>> And then if you're--
go.
>> Of course.
>> And how do you let it go?
You relax, which is
detachment, and then--
>> But it's not an intellectual
thing, how you relax.
The art of really relaxing,
of really letting go,
it's a skill that is
acquired through practice.
It's easy to say I
relax, but it has
to be practiced to
deeper and deeper levels.
>> You can tell
somebody be detached,
but then the mind
returns to the worry.
The mind returns to the worry.
So what is the practice
of letting go relaxation?
>> I think that meditation,
in its many definitions,
for sure it's the
art of letting go.
Is a skill that is acquired.
Actually, let's not
speak about art.
It sounds very unclear.
It's a skill that is acquired
through repeated practice
to learn to let go of
a mindset, a belief
system, a physical
tension, a certain emotion,
a certain behavior.
So literally you
learn to let it go,
not to hold it, because that
holding creates tension.
You are in tension.
>> Right, like in the movie
when you say grasp your fist.
This is what the mind is
doing, and then when you let--
>> You actually go, but you
need to practice it, you know?
So that's what the Buddha said.
It's like you let your
mind, your thoughts
go like birds that
were locked in a cage,
and you just open the cage,
and let them fly away.
Don't hold them.
He said we try to hold all this.
It's easier said than done.
It is like months or
years of applied practice,
so that's why I like to
call it mind training,
because you really
train your mind
to acquire skills
that we are just not
trained when we are small,
and so like everything
that you are not trained
to do since you are small,
they are harder to acquire.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Are you curious to
see where it will lead?
Our first stop is the
Temple of Borobudur,
a sacred temple in Indonesia,
and a key place to unlocking
our superhuman potential.
[RINGING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Who are you?
Do you know?
[MUSIC DISTORTING]
>> Who are you?
Do you know?
Who are you?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We are standing on top of one
of the most sacred structures
of the world, the Borobudur,
a mountain of a million
mysteries, so I
will ask a question.
Who are you?
Do you know?
Most people, when asked this
seemingly simple question,
go blank, just as
you did probably.
It is one of life's greatest
mysteries that even science
cannot answer.
The you is nowhere to be
found, not in your brain
or in your body, but
Borobudur gave us a clue.
Those are the five
layers of your self.
This first layer of you
is your name and form,
but that is not what you are.
It's just a label.
[RINGING]
Then, you had feelings
and sensation.
You touched the world,
and the world touched you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[BACKGROUND LAUGHING]
Then you formed
ideas and concepts
about the world and
everything in it.
You start labeling things as
right, as wrong, as good, as
bad, and in doing so, the
world became more and more
solid, more real,
and so you became
more real in the process.
And based on all your
new ideas and concepts,
you develop desires and
the will to act upon them.
[HEARTBEAT]
The separation caused
by these four layers
give birth to the fifth
layer, self-awareness.
So these are the five parts
of yourself, and it's perfect.
You are a miracle.
You are beautiful.
But the masters who
built Borobudur,
they had to go further.
They reverse engineered the
process to turn the particle
into the wave, define
it into the infinite.
But to do this, they had
to solve the greatest
riddle of all time.
Clench your fist.
Hard.
Harder.
Clench it tight.
The very sense of that you hold
so tight, the more contracted,
isolated, you become, and as
long as there is this you,
there is no infinite.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Chanting is 110 Hertz.
That vibration, which is
the same as when you om,
helps people get into
meditative state.
I mean, it's so amazing
that Neolithic man knew this
around the world.
Consciousness became my passion.
>> Thoughts create the
world in front of us.
Consciousness, the thoughts,
the energy field, the field
shapes matter.
>> The question is, what
is our human potential?
What does it mean to be human?
>> These are conundrums that
scientists cannot answer.
They create models of
reality, and then we
keep changing the model of
reality, Newtonian model,
special relativity,
general theory
of relativity,
quantum mechanics.
Even the best scientific
models cannot explain ordinary
experience.
>> Because I needed to
keep reconfirming it.
Was that real?
>> So all that you have is
your training, your energy,
and hopefully that clarity
that you can maintain within
the heat of the battle.
>> Inside energy have to be
connecting with the outside
energy.
>> When the energy is
flowing, it affects the mind.
>> There are three threads of
the one fabric of the reality
of life.
Feeling of interconnection,
open awareness, and love.
>> You are the center
of the universe.
It is not 20,000 miles away.
It is here.
>> You're just stepping
into that field of infinite
potentiality, and you have to be
willing to step into it before
you see it manifest, in
order for it to manifest.
>> And then also, I think there
are a lot of times where we
have experiences,
like we're like this,
but there's something right over
here that we don't quite know,
but we hear it in a lecture,
or we see it in a movie,
or we read it in a book, and
then our vision gets that much
bigger.
>> We have the potential right
now to meet so many beautiful
beings.
We can see the
masters close to us.
>> The richness that
we have inherited from
the deconstructed wisdom of the
different shamanistic cultures
that I spent quite a lot of
time exploring independently,
especially the teaching of
the Buddha because they are
so terse and without
religious jargon.
They are like so psychologically
accurate, but also
from other experiences
that I had, and bring
in this kind of deconstructed
and re-engineered technology,
I think that we are at
the verge of a revolution
of a transformation, seriously.
>> It really kind of creates a
new paradigm where it gives you
a tool where you can
more easily assess,
and I think that
must be a benefit.
>> In shamanistic cultures is
the idea that we go through
a process of making
self whole again.
In the journey, you are bringing
back part of your lost soul
and identity.
>> And it's that kind of
wholeness that you see
in a young child,
infant, don't you?
Before five, you see that
kind of complete unity.
>> What they are in this
deep sense is ludic,
which is the sense of-- not
lucid, but ludic meaning play.
Planary duality.
>> It's light and play.
>> It's the play of light.
All these exotic,
tantric deities.
They're all unreal,
but they aren't.
It's like William Blake said.
Everything that can be
imagined is an image of truth.
>> Something else happened that
these incredible emotions start
to come true.
>> Oh, right.
OK.
>> So the moments when an
amazing piece of music,
or a sunrise, or sunset really
carries you out of yourself--
>> Touches your heart.
>> Touches your heart,
and there is an emotion,
so that's the
experience of gratitude,
of is what very
often rock climbers,
astronauts experience.
People that are brought into
the magnitude of nature.
That emotion further
bring you out of yourself.
>> Pilgrims have journeyed here
to discover their true selves.
You see, with
cultural conditioning,
how we've been raised,
how we grow up,
what everybody tells
us we should be doing,
who we should be in the world,
we develop all these layers,
and then here we start
to peel the layers off
to understand our true
selves, our authentic nature.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Let's start with the little
question of what's our vision
of humanity as individuals,
as a collective,
and what's that guiding
light that we're aspiring to?
>> Very important question,
what is our potential as humans?
The short answer
is it's infinite,
but it depends, actually,
on what our understanding
of fundamental reality is.
So if we think that our identity
is a physical body with a mind,
then I think our
potential is limited.
Human beings experience
a very narrow bandwidth
of perceptual activity,
whether it's sound,
or taste, or smell,
or colors, or shapes.
We are experiencing a
very limited bandwidth
through an instrument that
we call the human brain.
Even to know that, we have
to go to a deeper level.
Who knows that?
What knows that?
What is it that wants to know
or understand human potential?
So we never experience
what we call the world.
We only experience
our own perceptions
and our interpretations
of those perceptions.
What you're experiencing
is a human experience
through a human brain and
through human consciousness.
Now the scientific
story, everybody
believes the scientific story,
but the scientific story
is changing.
We say the universe
began with the Big Bang,
so what caused the Big Bang?
Nobody can tell you.
Where did it happen?
There's no location
because there was no space.
When did it happen?
14 billion years ago.
You mean that time began
14 billion years ago,
or what was there before
the birth of time?
These are conundrums that
scientists cannot answer.
Even the best scientific
models cannot explain ordinary
experience.
They ask you to think
of a beautiful sunset,
you suddenly
experience an image.
There's no image in your brain.
Where do you experience colors?
There are no colors
in the real world.
Every quality that we ascribe
to experience shapes, colors,
smells, textures, fragrances,
sounds, sensations,
perceptions, none of
these have a location
in this physical world.
The world is not physical.
How are we getting
this hallucination?
But it's good because once we
understand how we create it,
we can actually project
another more comfortable,
upgraded illusion,
which would translate
into a more peaceful, just,
sustainable, healthier,
joyful world.
>> Upgrade our illusion.
>> Upgrade the illusion,
including the illusion
of your body, so when you
say you fall, you hit a tree,
you get pain, well the tree is
an experience in consciousness,
your body is an experience
in consciousness,
and so is the pain, an
experience in consciousness.
You just have to choose
your experiences.
[SIREN]
OK.
By the way, there is no
such thing as that sound.
[LAUGHTER]
That is a production
in consciousness.
>> Yeah.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I once met a great master who
said relaxation and peace is
who you are.
Tension and stress is who
you think you should be.
Now who we think we
should be creates
a lot of resistance, resistance
to the present moment,
so I want to teach
you an exercise.
It's similar to what David said.
When we're clenching that
fist, and then when we let go,
we feel the expansiveness
and the peace
of the present moment.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Now this is called
blending with the contraction.
We hold a lot of excess
tension in our bodies.
Do you get tight in
your neck and shoulders?
Think about where you hold
your stress in your body.
Well, this exercise
is going to help
to transform that stress back
into relaxation, back into flow
or inner peace within you.
Are you ready?
All right.
So first, what
we're going to do is
we're going to contract our
bodies a little bit more
than we normally do.
So I want you to tighten
your arm muscles,
tighten the muscles in
your neck and shoulders,
tighten your back and your
chest, squeeze your buttocks,
squeeze the muscles of your
legs, take a deep breath
and hold your breath, and
squeeze even your face.
Hold, hold, hold, and
squeeze everything tight,
and then exhale and
completely relax your body.
Relax your arms, your hands,
your back, your chest.
Take some slow, deep breaths
in and out through your nose,
and feel that peace and
relaxation, that warmth
of energy, flow through you.
Take a slow, deep
breath, and just
relax into the present
moment without resistance.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> And this is interesting
because you as a Westerner seem
to have access to these kind
of people where hardly anybody
in the world would have access
to so many people like this.
Do you feel like this is one
of your special talents, gifts?
I remember you telling
me about the visions
that you would have.
>> When I was young, I saw them.
>> You had a vision of them.
>> I had visions, also dreams,
but transported somewhere else.
Very precise flashes,
images, faces, direction,
like cues of how to find
them, and then I would simply
act upon the vision.
Others is like word of mouth.
They knew that I was
looking for them,
and they sent
someone to meet me.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You know, I talked
to a scientist,
and he reminded me that all
kinds of things in nature have
electricity.
Think of an electric eel.
It has a tremendous
amount of electricity.
Now some of these
masters have been
able to generate that
kind of electricity.
He also reminded me that
every single cell in your body
has a little bit of a charge,
and you have 50 trillion cells,
and when you add that up,
it's about the strength
of a bolt of lightning.
Now these masters have
trained their energy systems
to be coherent, to line up,
and direct that force out
from their body and in
and through other people.
Now we call this man Bagus but
we also called him the Leaf Man
because he has to hold a leaf.
He has got so much charge that
if he touches you directly,
it's too much.
It can be damaging to
the person he touches,
so when he's activated, he
uses a leaf or a flower,
he touches you, and it helps to
open up your body's circuits,
to expand the charge that
you can hold within yourself.
Now there's
exercises that we can
do to activate the qi, the
life force energy within you.
Are you ready to try something?
Are you ready to feel
your electricity?
Try this for 30 seconds with me.
You're going to rub these
pressure points at the ends
of your fingers together.
It's basically just
rubbing your fingernails
together back and forth.
Now breathe deep,
exhale all the way out.
Rub them vigorously like you're
starting a fire in your hands.
Come on, do this with me.
Breathe deep.
I want you to feel
your inner power.
Energy is that first step to
unleashing your superhuman
abilities.
Take one more deep
breath, relax,
bring your hands to
your lap, and feel.
Just take a moment to feel
the energy and the electricity
ignited in your hands.
Sense and feel the
buzzing and the tingling.
That is the life force energy
that you have within you.
It's the spark that
keeps you alive.
Energy is that inner luminosity.
It's the divine spark.
It's called by many
names over many cultures.
In China, was known as qi.
In India, prana.
All cultures have known
about this aliveness
that we all have
within ourselves.
Now we're going to
travel to Indonesia
and meet a master
who has developed
tremendous electrical powers.
His name is Bagus, which in
Indonesia means the great.
Now let's get ready to
adventure to Indonesia
and meet David and Bagus.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
>> Bagus is going to perform
a ritual in empowerment where
he's going to use his
Kundalini to activate mine.
His power is so
intense, so dramatic,
that he has to use a leaf
or a flower to touch me.
If he would touch
me directly, he
would probably give
me a heart attack,
and literally blast me away.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[PAINED GRUNTING]
[LAUGHTER]
>> I don't know if
you're smelling--
Yeah, I'm smelling it.
The burning of my flesh.
[PAINED GRUNTING]
>> OK, guys.
I'm getting to my limit.
It's very heavy on
the heart because it's
just the heart goes
in pre-fibrillation,
so you feel like heavily
like electrocution
and like the heart
is boom, boom, boom.
But gradually, what happens is
that the channels of your body
are like an electric
wire, so you
start in your wire
is very small,
and gradually you
upgrade the voltage
that your body can take so
your channel become wider,
and the amount of power that
can go through it is larger.
It's a very demanding
process, but it's
the whole process of this
rising of the Kundalini.
It's what we are
here for, and I hope
you're looking at this
because it's very rare to see.
We work very hard just for you.
[PAINED GRUNT]
This is a tester.
There is an LED light.
It is used to test if
there is a current,
but because this energy
very often doesn't register
on a normal voltmeter, but
it can light up an LED,
so that's what we use it.
If I touch him, you can
see this led coming on.
[BLEEP] Sorry, it's a bad word.
[PAINED SHOUT]
OK.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
Bagus means the great.
[LAUGHTER]
>> He was breathing,
but he's a priest,
and so we see in the movie
that he's doing special mantras
and chanting, and this
activates his power.
But as a normal, everyday guy,
you can walk up and touch him.
>> Yeah, of course.
He has to activate.
>> He has to activate.
>> He's a priest.
He developed his gift through
specificly the practice
of mantras and connection
with that energies.
They call them as a gods,
sort of intelligent energies
together with, of course, the
set of fundamental breathing
techniques and movements.
>> So did he do these
breathing techniques?
>> Of course.
>> Really?
>> All of them.
>> It's universal.
I mean, there is no way around.
Either there are
very few people that
manage to find the
key inside their mind
and open these energies without
anything because it's here,
or you need to use
some kind of technique
to trigger it, to trick
yourself into doing it.
It's a very interesting theme
because ultimately, it's
just here, but because we
do not have access here,
we need to sort of go around it.
>> A roundabout.
We need to circumvent
the whole Colosseum
before we get to the center.
[BACKGROUND CHATTER]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Many think the Borobudur
is just a temple,
but is so much more than that.
We are standing on a
three-dimensional map.
A three-dimensional mandala.
A representation of the
universe, both outer and inner.
A representation
of the infinite.
A representation of your mind
and a map out of your own self.
Slowly open your hand.
Feel it.
This is the vast
expanse of peace
that comes from letting
go of all resistance,
for no amount of resistance
will ever give you peace.
So open your eyes, and expand
yourself beyond these walls
until you start to
encompass everything.
>> What do you think
of the journey so far?
We've been to exotic places and
met some extraordinary masters.
Superhumans that have
mastered their energy.
In the next journey, we
embark on a new quest.
Now this master has been
trained for many years
to work with the fire to
ignite internal energy.
Now fire helps us to ignite
our superhuman abilities.
It helps to activate powerful
energy within ourselves
to push beyond our limits.
Fire has a way of burning
away the unnecessary,
the old energy, to make
room for new energy
and that inner light.
Are you ready for the adventure?
[MUSIC PLAYING]